Docs-7550 basic alerts and retrofit alerts to advanced alerts (#135)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/include-alerts-config.adoc

> = Configure an Advanced Alert

Author: ```suggestion
= Create an Advanced Alert
```

You can create, configure, delete, test, and send alerts to people who need to see them. The rules you configure trigger alerts when conditions reach a specified threshold value, for example: *TODO_FUTURE?*  You can also get the history of an alert.
////

image::graph-alert-config.png[Advanced Alert Configuration]

. Navigate to the configuration screen for a graph in a custom dashboard. For guidance, see xref:dashboard-custom-config.adoc[Configuring Custom Dashboards].

> . Provide a general configuration for the graph that (at minimum) defines the metric, environment, and resource for which you want to set the advanced alert. For guidance, see xref:dashboard-custom-config-graph.adoc#general_settings[General Settings].

Reviewer: GLOBALLY follow style for bullet-list items=no more than one fragment or sentence:
```suggestion
. Provide a general configuration for the graph that (at minimum) defines the metric, environment, and resource for which you want to set the advanced alert. +
For guidance, see xref:dashboard-custom-config-graph.adoc#general_settings[General Settings].
```
Also...are you SURE that you want to provide an xref in the middle of task steps? You don't really want them to click off into Never Land, right? Consider moving to See also.

Author: In this case, they probably need it here.

. Navigate to the *Alert* configuration tab for the graph.
. Click *Create Alert*.
. Use *Alert Config* to configure the alert. See <<alert_config, Alert Config>>.

> . Configure any notifications to email when an advanced alert is triggered. See <<notifications, Notifications>>.

Reviewer: Ditto on all counts of the above.

Consider "to send" rather than "to email."

Author: ```suggestion
. Configure email notifications when an advanced alert is triggered. See <<notifications, Notifications>>.
```

Note that you can also view <<state_history, state history>> and <<delete_alert, delete>> alerts.

[[alert_config]]

> === Advanced Alert Config

Reviewer: Are you naming a UI label or referring to "configuration"?

Configure the condition under which an advanced alert is triggered.

[%header,cols="1,4"]
|===
2+| Settings for Advanced Alerts
| Name | A title for your advanced alert.

> | `Condition` | WHEN: For triggering an advanced alert when the `JVM - CPU % Utilization` is above a specified level.

Reviewer: no periods

Author: ```suggestion
| Name | A title for your advanced alert
| `Condition` | WHEN: For triggering an advanced alert when the `JVM - CPU % Utilization` is above a specified level
```

|===

////
TODO _FUTURE?
.Advanced Alert Config
[%header,cols="1,4"]
|===

> | Name | A title for your advanced alert.

Reviewer: ditto prev

> | Name | A title for your advanced alert.

Author: ```suggestion
| Name | A title for your advanced alert
```

You can create, configure, delete, test, and send alerts to people who need to see them. The rules you configure trigger alerts when conditions reach a specified threshold value, for example: *TODO_FUTURE?*  You can also get the history of an alert.
////

image::graph-alert-config.png[Advanced Alert Configuration]

. Navigate to the configuration screen for a graph in a custom dashboard. For guidance, see xref:dashboard-custom-config.adoc[Configuring Custom Dashboards].
. Provide a general configuration for the graph that (at minimum) defines the metric, environment, and resource for which you want to set the advanced alert. +
For guidance, see xref:dashboard-custom-config-graph.adoc#general_settings[General Settings].
. Navigate to the *Alert* configuration tab for the graph.
. Click *Create Alert*.
. Use *Alert Config* to configure the alert. See <<alert_config, Alert Config>>.
. Configure email notifications when an advanced alert is triggered. See <<notifications, Notifications>>.

Note that you can also view <<state_history, state history>> and <<delete_alert, delete>> alerts.

[[alert_config]]

> === Advanced Alert Config

Author: ```suggestion
=== Configure an Advanced Alert
```

[[notifications]]
=== Notifications

> Configure a notification to email when an advanced alert is triggered.

Reviewer: email > send? send by email? Or just "configure a notification for when..."?

Author: ```suggestion
Configure a notification to send an email when an advanced alert is triggered
```

[%header,cols="1,4"]
|===
2+| Notification Settings for Advanced Alerts

> | `Send To` | Email address for a recipient of the advanced alert notification. You can add more than one email recipient to the list.

Reviewer: Ah, I see. If even one entry in a group is a complete sentence, then all take periods.
But it is best to try to make them all sentences or all fragments, if possible....

> | `Send To` | Email address for a recipient of the advanced alert notification. You can add more than one email recipient to the list.

Author: ```suggestion
| `Send To` | Email address for each recipient of the advanced alert notification
```

| `Message` | Message to send to the recipient.
|===

> After you complete your configuration, click *Save Changes*. To exit the configuration and return to the dashboard, click the `X`.

Reviewer: These look like "hidden" steps to me....

[[delete_alert]]
=== Delete

> To delete an advanced alert, click *Delete* on the menu in the *Alerts* tab, and then confirm your deletion.

Reviewer: ditto re. hidden step
